So with our app connected to mongodb, let's now use that post model to not just log it but to actually
save that data to the database
and for that we can do one cool thing,
we can just say post save. The save method is provided by the mongoose package for every model created
with it
and that's the advantage of this model and why we create our object with that model and not just a normal
javascript object.
So now we can save that
and what mongoose will do behind the scenes is that it automatically creates the right query for our
database to insert a new entry with that data and that automatically generated ID into the database,
so that is what save will do.
Now one thing, which database is the question? We got our database connection here but actually, this will
write to a so-called test database because what we have here is a connection to our cluster. Test is the
name of the database we're then storing the data in,
so you can override this and name it node angular for example,
so now it will automatically on the fly create that node angular database the first time you try to
write to it and it will create a new post entry or document as it's called.
Now if you remember, I said that documents are stored in collections though,
so what will be the name of the collection? That will always be the plural form of your model name,
so if your name is post then your collection name will be all lowercase posts.
So that's a collection which will be created automatically for you in the automatically created database
and there, mongoose will automatically save your post as a new document,
awesome,
so much automation.
So with that added here, let's see if that works, let's save that
and let's now go back to our application and let's try adding another post with a little bit of rolling
over the keyboard content
and here how can we tell if it worked,
we don't get a message here, right? Now unfortunately, in the free tier
we also can't look into our database here
so we can't really see this.
Now regarding the operations, that always has a little lag so we can't see it here either,
we don't see live updating here.
So in order to look into our database, we can connect from another source,
let's click on connect again on the cluster and connect with the mongo shell.
Now here choose your operating system and then you'll get instructions on how to install that mongo shell
and you can either use the download link or well that link to, well fetch it from there
and once you got it downloaded, you can use instructions, you're probably using the latest version of that
shell if you use that link
so you can click on the instructions here to find out how to connect.
Now let me show you how it works for Mac, it pretty much works the same for Windows.
So I'll first of all download that shell and once the download finished, I'll execute it, now on Windows
this should give you a little installer, on Mac
it will simply unzip this into a file which looks like this
and you can then just drag and drop that into a folder anywhere on your machine,
so a folder of your choice, I'll actually delete the old content and replace it with the newly downloaded
one,
just drag and drop it over there and then you open your normal operating system terminal or command
prompt where you then navigate into your folder,
into that bin folder and then you can simply run a certain command there which again you see here on
the instructions but it's essentially the same command.
So you can run this command which you see here,
copy it and hit execute
and on Mac and Linux, you will probably add a dot in front of that, dot slash, excuse me
and now this will run that shell and now you're connected to your database and what you can do now is
you can run certain commands.
First of all, you need to add your password though and that's the same password as you have here,
so just copy that password, paste it in
and now once you're connected, you can interact with your database from that, well interface here through the
terminal. Now which commands can you run?
First of all let's,
we're on the cluster,
let's switch to our database,
so to the database which is created on the fly here, node angular in my case. We do this by running use
node angular and you should see that it switched to the db node angular.
Now here, you can run help to see an overview over the commands you can execute and
for example what we can do is we can run show collections to see all collections that were created in
that database and you should see a posts collection there
and then you can also have a look into that collection by running db.posts.find and this will
list all the entries in this collection and you should see one document here which has this automatically
generated ID which has this object ID type
and then your title and your content.
And if you are seeing this, then it worked
and this really is in your database.
Now with that, let's go back to our app,
we can see that the data was stored there,
how can we now fetch it?